hi everyone Laszlo Montgomery here
bringing you part 1 in a brand new
series introducing a topic that's been
requested over and over going back to
the day I began producing the CHP ten
years ago in June 2010 not only is the
history of shin heung been requested
many times by listeners i even included
this subject amongst the original long
and rather comprehensive list of topics
written down in one single stream of
consciousness back when I had this idea
to present Chinese history using this
new podcast medium the raison d'etre of
this episode and this whole series in
fact covering the history of Xinjiang is
to offer you a brief general survey of
that land and its history over the past
several millennia we've hardly mentioned
Shin Jang in any of these CHP episodes
except of course and discussing the
history of the Silk Road Shin Ji Young
well the title of this series is a bit
misleading and I'd like to mention first
and foremost that the term shin heung
which translates to new frontier or new
borders didn't even get called until
1884 deep in the ching dynasty and in
presenting this history you know this
being the China history podcast and all
I'm gonna focus on this history as it
related to China over thousands of years
going back to the Qin Dynasty China has
flitted in and out of the history of
Sheens Yong from about the 3rd century
BCE until the Tang Dynasty Xin Jiang was
referred to as Shi you the western
regions west of what west of the human
the Jade gate built during the Western
Han Emperor was long reign that was the
end of the road as far as as far as
China went and it was called the Jade
Gate because of all that nephrite Jade
from coton that pass through this gate
on its way to the Imperial Palace and
other Jade markets in China Croton is
one of the bigger and more important
Oasis kingdoms we'll look at later on in
part
or and in other episodes Chinese and of
course others had a prehistoric love
affair with this ornamental mineral and
though you could get Jade in China the
good stuff came from Xin Jiang from the
kingdom of kolten hood yen and Mandarin
they carved it out of the Kunlun
mountains that acted as a
picture-perfect
postcard backdrop to that kingdom the
human the Jade gates was located about
50 miles west of dun Wong in westernmost
gansu province and 1,200 miles from
coton so I wish to emphasize again that
it's strictly for convenience sake that
throughout this series I'll be referring
to this land that today makes up a big
part of China's northwest quadrant by
its modern name Shin Jung rather than
Eastern Central Asia or you know any
other names I hope you don't mind but do
keep in mind that term Xin Jiang it's
only been used for the past 136 years
less than half a percent of a history
that goes back 4,000 years I'm only
gonna take this history up to 1911 not
because I want to avoid getting on the
CCP's bad side there's nothing to do
with that I'm gonna try and squeeze
several thousand years of action-packed
history and to hopefully no more than
ten episodes twelve most beyond that I
think there's probably at least another
ten episodes worth of modern Xin Jiang
history including the present-day so
this history is still being written as
we speak we'll come back and revisit the
subject of modern Xin Jiang another day
if I live that long this is quite a
history Central Asia
this time these are lands that perhaps
most of us will never visit in our
lifetime in popular world history as
it's taught in schools very little is
known about this history and its
importance
Marshall Poe's new books and Asia
Network has a show on new books and
Central Asian Studies but if you search
for Central Asia and all the podcast
apps there's not much we all know about
Genghis Khan and the
Mongol Empire from books podcasts or the
1956 John Wayne movie but outside of
this iconic icon from history who else
from Central Asia rings a bell Tamerlane
who else in all these once great and
vanished kingdoms and empires in today's
Afghanistan Pakistan whose Becca Stein
Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan Tajikistan Russia
and of course in Sheen's young this
history too it's not taught in too many
middle schools and high schools and how
many students take those courses in
their colleges and universities can't be
anywhere near the interest given to the
more popularly studied histories so
while the focus of this series will be
on shin jung and shin junks impact on
China because of shin heung Geographic
sensuality everything was tied together
with everything else that happened in
between the markets in ancient Shaanxi
province and the empires of Rome Persia
and every small and great Central Asian
Kingdom in between today in this episode
we're gonna look back at that time when
the world became small enough where a
human lost their fare of picking up and
wandering a thousand miles to see what
was out there this is when it first
happened when human beings who had
marked differences in their physical
appearance their dress language of
course when they first ran into each
other and the main thing I hope you take
away from this series is that Shin Jung
this particular piece of Central Asia
was the center of it all to the west of
Shin Jung were all the Central Asian
kingdoms and empires that stretched all
the way to the eastern Mediterranean Sea
and beyond that point to to Europe most
famously ancient Rome into shinjang East
no that was easy she and John was the
gateway to China the Hershey corridor
was this 750 mile long pathway that
connected Xin Jiang to Gansu back then
Gansu Province in the West it was as far
is the ancient Chinese would willingly
or even unwillingly go Xin Jiang was to
people of that age what the Wild West
was to Americans in the time of the
founding fathers in late 18th century no
one knew much about it and even fewer
would risk their lives going there
they're just like the 18th and 19th
century European traders who saw China
as a source of some of the most amazing
products the same could be said for
traders from BCE times who once they got
a load of China's big three commodities
tea silk porcelain they just had to have
it and in order to get to China in those
earliest of times you had to pass
through Shinjo there was no other way
this early in human development the see
was not an option still too scary for
most the Himalayas blocked your way from
the south and in the north same thing
endless impassable mountain chains and
deserts and the well beaten paths that
became known as the Silk Roads had
slowly developed over the decades and
centuries facilitated trade it was still
something fraught with dangers that came
in a multitude of different forms I
considered myself quite fortunate to
have a few giants whose broad shoulders
I was lucky to stand on while studying
this topic Victor Mayer the downright
venerable professor of Chinese language
and literature at the University of
Pennsylvania an institution founded
during the Qin Leung era in 1740 by the
man on the hundred-dollar bill dr.
Benjamin Franklin Victor mayor and many
of his colleagues did a lot of work with
the towering mummies that we're gonna
get to in this episode if I start
rattling off all the honors achievements
and accolades professor Mayer has
accumulated since the 1970s it'll take
us clear through a part three of this
series
Victor mayor JP Mallory I will list as
many sources as possible in the show
notes throughout this series as far as
books on this subject in the English
language you can do a lot worse than
these respected big names in this
indo-european Central Asian history
and linguistics and no less a person
than Josh summers of Far West China calm
formerly of Xinjiang he was the one it
was kind enough to insist I got my hands
on a copy of James a mil words Eurasian
crossroads a history of Xinjiang
there'll be a bunch of links in the show
notes to these and other sources worth
checking out for a lot of things that
happen only 200 years ago historians are
still racking their brains trying to
figure so much out the further back in
time you go the foggy or things get
recorded history for the Chinese
civilization that emerged along the
Yellow River began during the second
millennium BCE some 35 centuries ago but
when you go back even farther than that
third and fourth millennium before the
Common Era well it's like CSI Xin Jiang
forensic archaeology forensic
anthropology it's like one massive crime
scene in all these amazing scientists
and scholars going back to the time of
Sven Hadean and volca Bergman and so
many others have been trying to put all
the pieces together and learn more about
what actually happened there
archeologists anthropologists and these
clever clever people who know how to
perform linguistic reconstruction
molecular anthropology research DNA
analysis down to the mitochondrial level
historic reconstruction scientists who
perform genetic experiments on ancient
relics and human remains and all kinds
of brilliant people historians to using
all the latest technologies of our day
have come up with some interesting
theories about where we all came from
you know a lot of people think there
wasn't a lot of mobility from east to
west and vice-versa
until Han wildy and the Silk Road to the
second century BCE actually North
Essenes young stretching from northeast
China and to Mongolia Russia Kazakhstan
all the way to Hungary and Romania was
the great Eurasian steppe these
grasslands
were the first
ways that human civilization began
utilizing to pass from east to west and
west to east these grasslands and they
weren't like the pitch at old trafford
they passed through some of the most
desolate parts of Central Asia but it
was a path that existed and it was
easier to traverse than mountains and
deserts if you go on Google Earth and
zoom out far enough so that the entirety
of the Asian continent fills your screen
you'll see this one rugby ball shaped
area like Jupiter's red spot that just
stands out when looking at the entire
Eurasian landmass you can't not see it
that's the Tarim basin a basin is a
hollow or a depression and the Earth's
surface wholly or partly surrounded by
higher land you could pack the entirety
of Egypt inside the Tyron Basin with a
little room to spare you could take all
the square footage of Texas and New
Mexico - pretty big states would you
agree 2nd and 5th largest in the nation
fits nicely inside the tower and basin
as my president says it's huge and right
in the center of that rugby ball shaped
Basin is the Taklamakan desert that I am
pleased to say professor mayor disabuse
me of the old Bubba might so that
claimed Taklamakan was Weger for you can
enter but you cannot get out that
factoid I guess is a close relative -
you could see the great wall from outer
space without the need of a telescope
there are four major mountain ranges
that surround the Tyron basin the
tension or heavenly mountains and the
Altai in the North the Kunlun to the
south and the pas mares to the west all
those tall mountains that RIM the basin
hogged all the precipitation in the air
and for that reason the only rain or
snow that fell mostly I'll fell on the
mountains and rarely ever in the basin
itself which is why it's this massive
desert mountains and basins did
fine Xin Jiang geographically the
mountain peaks range from 4,000 meters
to the second tallest mountain in the
world k2 at eight thousand six hundred
eleven meters located on the Xin Jiang
Pakistan border there were three basins
and shinjang where the entirety of our
story takes place
they are the terraeum mentioned already
the turpan and the hungarian basins
you'll be hearing these names in every
single episode you know there are all
kinds of theories scholarly and
conspiratorial that proffer explanations
about how everyone on the earth ended up
where they did and one of the more
accepted theories is that after the last
ice age ended about 40 50 thousand years
ago that's when humankind first began to
get up get out and begin wandering the
good earth I'm sure everyone has heard
the term before indo-european well that
word has been bandied about a lot when
discussing prehistoric times the people
who live back then and their languages
indo-european India and Europe I used to
wonder what did these two places have in
common and English and Hindi same
linguistic family well as for me someone
whose family came from Europe we're
Caucasoid spoke European languages I'm
in this indo-european group too the area
stretching from Europe to India it's so
vast it's hard to take in this notion
that before everyone spread out all over
the world and migrated replaced place
there was this one single indo-european
people who came from somewhere and
that's somewhere is what many of these
scientists professors and researchers
from universities all over the world
call the lands of the
proto-indo-europeans and the language
they spoke was proto-indo-european the
mother of all these languages such as
Spanish English Portuguese Hindi and
Urdu Bengali Russian Punjabi German
Farsi French
Italian and Marathi we all got something
in common
Farsi yes but Arabic and Hebrew
those were afro-asiatic languages
different branch all the languages of
the Old Testament as well
everything from about as far south as
the Horn of Africa to the southern and
eastern shores of the Mediterranean
afro-asiatic languages but indo-european
hard to believe what do inless speakers
have in common linguistically with the
people of Maharashtra and Northwest
India well if you buy into all the
theories that have gained the most
traction in the world of science this
proto-indo-european language that
existed before recorded history as much
as six sir seven thousand years ago from
this root language evolved all the
different indo-european languages of the
world and where did these
proto-indo-europeans come from where was
that most ancient of all lands were
these hunter-gatherers and pastoralists
came from it's widely believed among the
academic community that these
proto-indo-europeans and their language
came from that part of the vast Eurasian
steppe north of the Black and Caspian
Seas and from there they spread out to
the north into the interior of Russia
Siberia and Mongolia westward to Europe
south and east to India and Tibet and
south towards Iran and into the core of
Central Asia all these ancient peoples
that we've heard of and read about in
our history classes the Sith ian's the
Parthian Persians Greeks Slavs all of
them these were those people
these proto-indo-europeans who gave rise
to the indo-europeans who branched out
all over the northern hemisphere
stretching from Lisbon to the Gobi
Desert
and these indo-european people ended up
in Xinjiang too they began settling
there it's thought around
four thousand years ago we know who
these people were because the renowned
Swedish explorers of the early 20th
century who I mentioned earlier with the
help of local inhabitants discovered
these so-called bronze and Iron Age
Terran mummies perhaps you've heard of
them tar him mummies because they all
inhabited the Tarim basin but only
certain parts they're not mummies in the
way King Tut and other entombed Egyptian
pharaohs were called in the words of
Victor Meir they were more desiccated
corpses I guess you could call them if
you place them side by side with the
Egyptian mummies in the Cairo Museum
they don't look the same so far hundreds
of these mummies have been found but
there are seven stars who make up the
most well known group of towering
mummies who have revealed secrets kept
locked away for millennia of these seven
mummies well perhaps the best known of
them all is the beauty of lo'laan Victor
mayor calls the Marlena Dietrich of the
desert more about the kingdom of lowland
when we look at the individual kingdoms
sometime in parts four and five lap nor
was located midway between the Hershey
corridor and the Tyron Basin at one time
lap nor was a huge Salt Lake much bigger
than the one in Utah Lop nor due to the
number of geological factors dried up
and the Salt Lake became an inhospitable
salt marsh and then in time well it
became such an inhospitable place that
by the time of the 20th century it
actually became a nuclear test site for
the PRC the first atom bomb was
detonated there in October 1956 and the
first h-bomb in June 1967 45 nuclear
bombs were tested around lap nor with
the last one being in July 1996
the beauty of lo'laan is the oldest of
these discovered mummies and is dated to
about 1800 BCE the final years of the
mythical Chou dynasty in China and the
earliest beginnings of the Shang
we're recorded Chinese history began
with the Oracle bone inscriptions over
3,800 years ago late longshan and early
our Lito cultures in China as I said
thanks to the way nature preserved her
the beauty of lo'laan yeah it didn't
look too bad when she was discovered in
1980 and she's still in pretty decent
shape all things considered and when you
take her all in you'll see
despite being found in China she's
neither or East Asian she's
one of these proto-indo-europeans I've
mentioned light hair fair skin long
noses deep-set eyes thin lips Caucasoid
or europe odd but not necessarily from
anywhere near the European continent
Victor mayor mentioned that she had been
given a shellacking to preserve her
appearance in the museum but that this
attempt at preservation or enhancement
didn't work out too well from which
tribe or nation did the beauty of
lowland belong these earliest settlers
in the easternmost part of the Tarim
Basin hard to pin down there was no pure
race that dominated Victor mayor said
they didn't belong to any one genetic or
linguistic stock as I said Xin Jiang was
a crossroads and people pass through and
stayed a while over a period of
centuries were these earliest
inhabitants to settle their proto Seth
Ian's or perhaps proto celts or neither
this part of xinyang today so desolate
dry was once a thriving prehistoric
civilization most of these towering
mummies and the most breathtaking
archeological excavations came from this
far eastern portion of the towering
basin pretty dry today but four thousand
years ago it wasn't in this once well
watered land where the beauty of lowland
was discovered after all the initial
tests were ran scientists believed she
was of indo-european origin and belonged
to a group of people known as taka
that she was Caucasian and found this
far to the east was the one thing that
made this fine such a big deal what were
these Caucasian people doing inside what
is today China that's what Victor Meir
wondered when he had his first
face-to-face encounter with these
mummies in a room chi back in 1987 so
that created quite a lot of excitement
in the academic world we know west of
Xin Jiang and all those Central Asian
Nations they have a healthy mix of
Caucasian and East Asian second century
BCE we know all about Han Chinese
interaction with these states that
surrounded the tyreme basin but this far
back to 3,000 years ago
well Chinese washa civilization was
still hugging the Yellow River Xin Jiang
was very far away from where Chinese
civilization was just starting to form
so the beauty of lo'laan I mentioned
there were seven total you also have the
beauty of shahe she was found about 120
kilometers west of the beauty of Lowell
on Java means Little River these schalke
tombs were first discovered in 1910 by a
local inhabitant from that region named
Burdick by the time he stumbled on this
site a fair amount of the graves had
already been plundered and looted and to
honor the discoverer of this place it
became known as the edict necropolis
1934 this gentleman with that Turkish
name he took the great Swedish explorer
folky Bergman to see it this her dick
necropolis doesn't appear to be much
from the outside it ain't no Giza
necropolis it was a big oval-shaped
mound in the desert with a hundred and
forty wooden stakes of various heights
protruding from the mound hardly looks
spectacular from the time of Birdman
until 2002 nothing much happened but in
that year a Chinese team of scientists
and archaeologists went in and started
excavating there and this team came upon
the best
reserved and most abundant supply of
well former residents of the area shall
we say and one of them was called the
beauty of shell the dryness of the
climate and the salinity of the soil
provided the one-two punch that allowed
so many of these well I'll keep
referring to them as mummies rather than
desiccated corpses that's what made this
such a spectacular find you can see
their eyelashes even after these two
beauties there was another incredible
discovery so well preserved and this was
the colorful Church and man from Qi Amal
County West of lo'laan more about Shyam
or later church and man was dated to
about 3,000 years ago about 1000 BCE
it's estimated he's also referred to as
her David yeah you don't look Chinese or
Asian but he had both European and Asian
genes had he and these other tenants of
the edict Acropolis they migrated to
this land from Europe how did they end
up here besides those three there was
Yin pond man the wishes of subha she the
shaman of young high and the man from
haami with two dozen hats each one tells
a different story
Yin pond man discovered in 1995 well the
main thing about him was his getup he
had to have been quite a man of wealth
and taste it was suggested perhaps he
was a saadian trader he was found not
too far from Lowell on was actually
dated to around the fourth or fifth
century ce e and aside from the fact
that he was about six foot six with
light brown hair tied in a top knot he
was buried with a a white death mask a
gold diadem and a red and gold robe with
embroidered pants fancy gold colored
boots everything intricately constructed
and sewn his bare dead face still
preserved The Witches of Subash II were
dated from the fourth to second
centuries BCE they were found just east
of the city of Turpan they were interred
wearing these tall point
black hats similar to the Wicked Witch
of the West and The Wizard of Oz good
old Margaret Hamilton who can forget her
actually these tall black pointed witch
hats seem to be a popular style with
more than just these women found in
Tsubaki other cultures as well have the
same or similar kinds of headgear the
shaman of young high was another
Caucasoid mummy found in another
necropolis west of Turpan fair hair and
blue eyes usually a dead giveaway Snoop
Dogg Tommy Chong and Bill Maher would
love this guy buried with the shaman of
young high was a nice big stash cannabis
sativa strain if you were wondering
again more about young high in part 5 in
the man from haami with two dozen hats
he was found 60 miles west of ha me ha
me is on the northeast corner of
Xinjiang bordering Mongolia to the north
and GaN su to the east famous the world
over for their fine tasting ha me melons
you can get them here in most LA grocery
stores but they ain't from cynjohn
they're grown locally here in SoCal this
man with two dozen hats
he was dated from about a thousand BCE
early Jo dynasty like his name suggests
he was buried with a lot of hats like
others found in Southeast shinjang his
garments were intricately sewn and like
other mummies found in some of these
graves he had some plaid designs woven
in his garments that were quite similar
to what was found among the celts in
europe so you can imagine all the
speculation and study that has gone into
that possible link here as you start to
get closer to the Common Era the
towering mummy is discovered were found
to be more East Asian and less
indo-european you know there's a whole
bunch of content on the internet about
these tyrant mummies it's one thing to
listen to me ramble on and on but there
are plenty of videos and stories with
pictures all over the World Wide Web
get on the google and search for Tarim
mummies and then go block out 18 hours
and
binge on there by the way mixed in with
all those nice scholarly papers videos
and documentaries are a few knows
tabloid style archaeology shows
stoke a few myths about the origin and
significance of the towering mummies
that well once they're made into a TV
documentary these myths sort of take on
a life of their own
there are archaeological sites all over
shinjang not just these famous ones I
mentioned I think there are nine Bronze
Age sites and shinjang that have been
excavated and teams are always out there
trying to uncover more of the mysteries
of this ancient land if you're not
familiar with Sven Hadean and folky
Bergman read up on them - they were
explorers and cartographers whose
contributions to the understanding of
that part of the world her unparalleled
and of course Victor Maher is also
written extensively and la zone
Elisabeth Whalen Barbour I didn't
mention her yet but she too has made
great contributions to the understanding
of the towering mummies she's one of the
leading experts in archaeology in
general in linguistics and prehistoric
textiles in particular I'll have links
to Professor Barbara's books - and many
others as well so we'll just cut it
short right here and now you got the
main idea I think this is as far back as
she and young history goes for now
anyway there's still lots to go yet and
the lion's share of the content will
look at covers the period of the ching
dynasty
you won't want to miss that I wouldn't
don't swipe left on this episode just
yet
one last pitch about how you can support
the CHP you have two ways patreon.com
slash China history podcast pledge three
bucks a month and get access to all
kinds of material I wouldn't dare upload
to this RSS feed as well as early access
to future CHP episodes if you don't like
the patreon model that's okay you can
always hit me up at the official CHP
PayPal donation center at PayPal dot me
slash China history podcast enter any
amount
hit enter I'll personally thank you this
here is Laszlo Montgomery you've been
listening to the China history podcast
it's gonna be ten years old this June
2020 can you believe it if anyone wants
to throw a party for me I'll fly out do
think about coming back next time for
assuredly another exciting episode of
the China history podcast